# Overview
Welcome! This repository provides the code related to Guanlin HE's doctoral dissertation entitled "[Parallel algorithms for clustering large datasets on CPU-GPU heterogeneous architectures](https://www.theses.fr/2022UPASG062)" (defended on October 19th, 2022 at Université Paris-Saclay). The code includes several optimized parallel implementations of clustering algorithms:
1. Parallel k-means(++) clustering on CPU
2. Parallel k-means(++) clustering on GPU
3. Parallel spectral clustering on CPU
4. Parallel spectral clustering on GPU
5. Parallel representative-based spectral clustering on CPU / on GPU / on CPU+GPU

Although the code contain comments, referring to the dissertation can help you understand our parallelization strategies, implementation details and optimisation techniques.

## Structure
- The `main.cc` file in the home directory contains the top-level function `main()`. 
- All the other `.cc` files lie in the `modules` folder, while the `.h` files are put into the `include` folder. They are further classified by subject in the second-level directory. 
- The charateristics and locations of benchmark datasets are defined in the `include/datasets.h` file.
- The default settings of various program parameters are defined in the `include/config.h` file.
- The compilation settings are specified in `Makefile_definitions` under the home directory and in `Makefile` under different levels of directories.
- The `.txt` files (e.g. cluster labels) generated by the clustering program are stored in the `output` folder by default. 
- The `python` folder contains some `.py` files used to generate synthetic data, plot data and clustering, evaluate clustering quality, etc.

## Compilation
The code was developed under Linux and is written mainly in C, OpenMP and CUDA. The target compilation tools are `gcc` and `nvcc`. Detailed compilation settings can be found in `Makefile_definitions` and `Makefile`. 

A `make clean` command is suggested before each compilation with the `make` command in the home directory. The compilation process may take about 1-2 minutes.

## Execution
After compilation, the executable file named `Clustering` will be produced. Then you can run `Clustering` with various arguments (enter `Clustering -h` to get the usage of arguments).

Examples:
- parallel k-means clustering on CPU using 40 threads:
```
./Clustering -algo 1 -cpu-nt 40
```
- parallel k-means++ clustering on GPU:
```
./Clustering -algo 2 -seeding-km-gpu 2
```
- parallel spectral clustering on GPU (using Gaussian similarity with $\sigma=0.02$ and threshold 0.1 for similarity):
```
./Clustering -algo 4 -sigma 0.02 -thold-sim 0.1
```
- parallel representative-based spectral clustering on CPU+GPU (using k-means algorithm to extract representatives, and using the values above for connectivity parameters):
```
./Clustering -algo 5 -chain 3 -er 2 -sigma 0.02 -thold-sim 0.1
```

Note that, for performance concerns, some parameters are defined as constants in `include/config.h` and `include/datasets.h`, such as the number of representatives (`NB_REPS`) and the way of computing similarity (`GAUSS_SIM_WITH_THOLD`). They are not regulable by command arguments, thus the code requires to be recompiled after modifying the values of these constant parameters.
